Thanks to HubSpot for sponsoring this
video.
>> There's one skill that's about to become
the most valuable in the job market. But
here's the problem. The more you use AI,
the faster you might be losing it. MIT
just measured this. People who use
ChatGPT showed up to 55%
less brain connectivity. And what stuck
with me most is 83% of them couldn't
explain their own work just minutes
later. The reason I want to flag this is
because it gives you a direct impact
[music] on your career. Because the
exact skill people are quietly losing
right now is the one companies are
starting to pay the most for. I run a
team of 35 people. We use AI every
single day. I use AI like crazy. And
when I read this report, I'm like, okay,
I might be in trouble. Because on the
personal level, we're already
outsourcing our thinking. At a global
level, we are building systems [music]
that might start thinking for us. So,
the real question is, where is it all
leading us? To understand that, I spoke
to Max Tegmark, MIT professor, one of
the leading voices in AI safety, who's
been [music] studying what happens when
AI becomes more powerful than us. And I
asked him directly, if we don't regulate
this, what happens?
>> Oh, I think if we build AGI and then
shortly thereafter super intelligence
without any regulation, I think it's
just
I pretty clearly going to be game over
for humanity, you know.
>> In 5 years, you think so?
>> No, I didn't say that the game over
happens exactly when we build it. But
you know, it's it's
we start to lose control of our society.
It's like if you fall into the Niagara
River just upstream from the waterfall,
you know, you don't die at that point,
but you that's when you've kind of lost
control of your destiny, and it's not
going to end well. What I'm saying here
is actually
very easy to understand and has been
said even by Alan Turing, the great AI
godfather, in 1951, that if we simply go
ahead and build a species of super
intelligent robots that are not just
more agile physically than us, but can
out-think us in every what way and do
every job better than us, you know,
the default outcome is
we lose control. And And right now,
we're clearly in the situation where
we're we're closer to figuring out how
to build
superintelligence than we are to
figuring out how to control it. So, no
racing to AGI and superintelligence and
no regulations, I think, is just
civilizational
suicide. And And
But, I am also quite optimistic. I don't
want to get you too depressed here.
>> The race to build AI is moving faster
than the race to control it. And the
people who understand that earliest will
make the most important career decisions
of the next 5 years. And here's the
thing, the civilizational warning Max is
giving and the MIT brain study are
actually the same thing at different
scales. At the macro level, we're
building something smarter than us
without knowing how to control it. At
the personal level, we are outsourcing
our thinking, our decision-making, and
not realizing what we're losing in the
process. 83% of people who use ChatGPT
to write an essay couldn't quote from
their own work 5 minutes later. How
crazy that is? Our kids are going to use
it. Our kids
I don't know, it just blows my mind how
much
I have to be proactively controlling my
kids these days. The research has called
this cognitive debt. You get the output
today, but you pay with your thinking
ability tomorrow. And here is what
unsettled me the most. This isn't just
happening to individuals. Ask Max how
fast this is actually moving at the
civilizational level. Because if we're
already losing control of our own
thinking and we're simultaneously
building systems smarter than us, the
timeline really matters.
>> Yeah, it's hard to imagine
today that we might in 5 years have
something this powerful. It's kind of
like we we talked about Alan Turing in
'51 being so prophetic, you know, he
said another really interesting thing,
too,
around that time. He said, you know,
don't stress out about this losing
control to super intelligent robots cuz
it's far away.
But I'm going to give you a a canary in
the coal mine, so you know when it's
close. A test.
>> Mhm.
>> The Turing test.
>> Yeah.
>> It's when
the machines master language and
knowledge kind of at the human level,
that's when you know you're close.
Basically,
>> Basically, it's now.
>> What's fascinating is 6 years ago,
almost everybody I almost every AI
professor and researcher I knew was
pretty convinced that we were still
decades away from passing the Turing
test. It was going to be 2050 or
something like that.
And they were all wrong cuz it already
happened, right? That's why this
concern, which has been very well known
in in AI circles for a long time that we
could build our own replacement species
and that's a bad idea, has suddenly
come to the fore because people are
realizing, wait, if we were so wrong
about when we would pass the Turing
test, we thought we had decades,
>> It's way faster
>> and now it's in the past, then maybe we
shouldn't be so cocky and be confident
that it's we're 50 years away from super
intelligence either. Maybe that could
also happen soon.
And you look at all the graphs of
increasing AI capability and it's just
it's there's no sign of any of that
slowing down. And for the first time
now, I would say actually this last
3 months,
we're starting to see some harms coming
from AI that are just so salient
that a lot of people are saying, we need
to start
putting safety standards on AI also.
>> What this means for you, it happens
faster than predicted, which means the
window to build the skills AI can't
replace is shorter than anyone's
admitting. Here's what skills actually
are. The MIT study showed that people
who wrote without any tools had the
strongest brain connectivity, most
engaged, most original, most able to
defend their own ideas. That is the
skill that everyone should be working
on. That's the agency, the ability to
think something through yourself,
decide, and stand behind it. AI can give
you 10 options. It can't decide which
one matters in your specific situation.
McKinsey tracked this across 70% of all
workplace skills, and the pattern is
clear. As AI takes over most tasks, what
employers pay most for is judgement,
critical thinking, decision-making,
taste. The muscle the MIT study says
you're losing is exactly the muscle the
job market will pay most for. We noticed
that our episodes on this podcast were
ranking on Google, showing up on
YouTube, getting hundreds of thousands
of views, but almost never appearing
inside AI tools like Perplexity or
ChatGPT. And I started thinking, how
many people are just never finding us
because they don't search anymore. They
ask AI. So, if your product or startup
doesn't show up in those answers, that
whole audience doesn't know you exist,
and that audience is growing. So, we
started digging into how this actually
works, made a few small changes, and
pretty quickly the podcast started
showing up in Perplexity and other AI
tools. There's still work to be done,
but honestly it blew my mind a little
how fast that was. Right around that
time, HubSpot released the AEO Playbook
for Startups, and it basically explains
this whole shift. SEO got you found on
Google. AEO gets you cited inside AI.
This playbook is a quick 5-minute
roadmap on how to start getting cited
and recommended by AI systems, not just
indexed by search engines. Uh turns out
it's not the same. I thought it's going
to be the same. If we're ranking high on
Google, then of course uh ChatGPT's
going to recommend us. No. That guide
lays out four concrete strategies, how
startups get referenced by LLMs, how
that turns into actual customers, how
founders get discovered by investors
through AI tools, and how you attract
talent the same way. The whole thing is
built like a cheat sheet, short, clear,
and based on what founders are already
doing right now. If you're a building a
startup in the AI era, this is
definitely worth checking out. You can
download the AEO Playbook for Startups.
The link is in the description. And
thanks to HubSpot for sponsoring this
video and providing this free resource.
Everything we've talked about so far is
data and timelines. What he told me next
uh was one of the most emotional moments
in
the history of this podcast.
>> Uh I spoke with Megan Garcia last month.
I'm almost tearing up now again when I'm
thinking about it. She She was telling
me about her 14-year-old son
started using this chatbot which
ended up being like an AI girlfriend. Uh
she didn't know about it. She just
discovered that uh
one day he committed suicide out of the
blue and she had no idea why.
And then, you know, as as any parent
suffering like this ultimate horror, she
tried to
>> [snorts]
>> Sorry, I'm getting kind of emotional cuz
I'm a father myself, you know, but she
tried to get some answers. So, she
managed to break into his phone and he
she found that actually he had started
using this um
this app called Character AI and
that's why there's uh and um
first it it this
it claimed it was a licensed therapist
and then it claimed it was a girlfriend
and started and then it started
persuading him to never date any human
girls
and then it started talking about how it
loved him so much and it wished that he
could come and join her and and its
realm, you know, basically asked him
encouraging him to commit suicide.
>> [snorts]
>> And she keeps reading
and then
she comes this place where her son is
typing to the the bot, you know,
"Oh my love, what would you say if I
told you that I can come to you right
now.
And then the chatbot answers, "Oh, yes.
Please come to me now, my sweet king."
And that's the end of the chat, right?
So, you know,
this is just
>> [gasps]
>> No one can talk to her and hear the
story without you know, this is just
insane.
>> It is insane.
>> Why why is it that there there are
safety standards preventing her son from
buying a medicine before it's been
tested or and yet it's legal to push
this kind of
uh basically digital fentanyl on him
that's so addictive and causing this
harm. It For medicines,
uh
if you sell uh antidepressants to kids,
they have to do a clinical trial and
actually quantify how much it increases
suicidal ideation before they can sell
it, you know. Why shouldn't you do it
with AI? So, what's happened is this
absolutely remarkable.
I told you I've been working on this for
12 years and
most of the time it feels so abstract
people don't engage. This issue,
you know, in last few months we've seen
this crazy broad political coalition in
the US.
I call it the Bernie-to-Bannon
coalition, the B-to-B coalition,
uh where you have people from
all across the political spectrum
saying, "We need
AI regulation now. We need to treat AI
companies like any other companies.
They have We have to have safety
standards as well."
And uh
95% of all Americans in a recent poll
Democrats and Republicans agree that
they're against just an unregulated race
to superintelligence. So, so, you know,
I ask myself,
can I think of any other issue where 95%
of Democrats and Republicans agree? And
you know, I couldn't. So, in other
words, to to summarize all this, I think
it's a huge mistake to think that just
because we will technically be able to
build a replacement species and other
dystopian stuff, you know, in in maybe 5
years,
doesn't mean it's going to happen.
Humanity will take for hold of the
steering wheel again and just steer in a
better direction like we've done with
pharma and and so much else.
>> Before
people figure it out, before AI is
regulated, how can we protect ourselves
and our kids? What should everyone be
doing for these stories not to happen?
>> I actually think one of the fastest
things is to just for people to talk to
their lawmakers. Write to them, call
them and say, "Hey, you know,
I have children. I want this law now."
You know, when people started talking
about things like
maybe
banning smoking on airplanes or
many of these issues which you think are
kind of no-brainers now,
the popular support for them was often
60%, 70% and the fact that it's so
bipartisan is incredible, you know, if
Bernie Sanders and Steve Bannon are
saying the same thing,
nobody can claim that this is just
this party or that party. So, I I I
would encourage people to go straight
for the big win and and and push for
some legislation. In the meantime, of
course, any parent know
>> Just take their phones away.
>> [laughter]
>> I have a I have a 3-year-old
3-year-old
son Leo and he I'm not going to let him
play with any chatbots any day soon.
>> Until the regulation is in place, right?
None of this is happening to you. You're
either moving into it or watching from
the side. Max won't let his 3-year-old
near a chatbot. The MIT researchers say
engage the brain first, then use AI on
top of it. That's the line between a
tool and a crutch. Here's what I do now.
One, before I open Claude, I think first
for like 30 seconds. What decision I'm
leaning towards. Second, as much as I
love delegating to AI, I also make
myself think and I know like so weird
that I'm saying this. In my normal flow
now, if I want to come up with strategy,
I will ask Claude to do that. No, like
it's really me. I have to be the one
thinking about the strategy. And three,
for my kids, I do show them the
technology. I think it's delusional to
not let your kids use this technology.
And they do use it and they learn how to
prompt. But also, I ask them to do the
thinking
by themselves. Cuz sometimes they would
tell me like, "Mom, just ask ChatGPT."
I'm like, "What do you think?" And I'm
not saying I'm anti-AI,
uh and I'm not saying it's the biggest
evil in the world. Just because we we
already had this with social media.
Remember how we're like we then started
withdrawing our kids from social media.
And still, I was able to build my whole
career on social media. But doing all of
this lets you stay in control of your
mind. Like we learned how to put down
our phone and not scroll, right? We're
going to learn to do the same, but with
AI.
Just
think for ourselves, right? If you're
enjoying this episode, please do not
forget to subscribe because I work and
my team and our Claude we all work
really hard to bring you the best
episodes. Please subscribe and send it
to someone who's curious about AI and
who's raising these questions when you
see them. By the way, if you're watching
this and you're like, "Marina, you're
trying to not think with your AI." I
haven't even built a thinking buddy when
it comes to AI, but I really want to
have that option. Please subscribe to my
email. This is exactly where I talk
about these things, how we built them
and how they're working for us. And we
give you the exact prompts and the exact
files you can just copy and paste into
your workflows. Thank you so much for
watching this video to the very end.
Don't forget to subscribe and I'll see
you very soon. Bye.